<h1>Data Centric Website Development</h1>
Within this project I was instructed to create a website that I would like to create from an idea that I have had. I was instructed to create a website that puts use to the python and flask server language and allows for me to create a forwarding frame which would create and structure out a website which can be used within a server instance. I have used this to create something that I had widely wanted to create from the start. I was instructed to use some other langauges as well such as HTML CSS and Javascript. I have chosen to only use the CSS and HTML languages though as the functionality of my webpage and the practicality of the website was created with just the use of what I have chosen to do.

I have selected to create a project with rules set upon myself as well. I want to create a website that holds a series of different pieces of information that are published by a community just like a forum page. I want to be able to allow for a user to create a page about a game and add a series of different types of information to the pages to inform others of what they have done, or just how to play a game. I have selected to not allow the use of images and videos. Although they can help a user be able to understand the actual information better. I wanted to stick to just text as this is intended to be a written form. I am aware that the inclusion of images and videos would help users and views understand the information better but yet would begin to become more complicated and really change my idea and opinion to far past what I want to do.

I wanted to also include a form of accounts and make it so that a user only needs a username and password. I am aware of the security issues that will arise but I have made it so that on the website content which is given a blue tag has been given a seal to say that this information is better than others that you may find. I understand that I have also not included the ability for a user to delete or edit a comment but will not allow the user to have such a strong control of the site. The reason behind not allowing a user to edit a comment is so that they may not change the content of a comment that has been given a blue seal. This will allow for users and views to wrongly abuse power and also would affect the use of my site further. I want to create a site where its content is not completely monitored but yet you can see a series of comments within different areas that you may view comments which are controller or authorized.

<h2>Introduction</h2>
Within this project which I widely plan out through a series of different ways I will begin by creating an idea that uses the rules and ideas that are given to me by both the course and myself.

I am already thinking of an idea of which I would like to create the next situation is to begin to find out how to produce and create this idea in a practical project. I would like for a site that can both create and post forms and also allow for people to view the site both as a users or as a viewer. I would like to keep in mind that people in my life are unable to deal with passwords, usernames and emails so I have chosen to make the site simple but effective. I want to make sure that all are welcome and all can use this site no matter what maybe the situation. I also want to make the site setup so that a user can create a post but at the same time can not edit it or effect it, as I want to publish the content and decide for myself if a comment is suppose to stay or leave the site. Within practicality there would be a few features which I would also add but due to the small level of use to this site these changes are possibly unnecessary.

I would like to begin with a simple style and a simple set of fonts and colours to be decided as this is how I begin to build a website. I need to understand what the site should look like and what I want to create when making the site.

As I understood I wanted to create a site I also wanted to make it a forum or view page which can be used by different people to post a comment. With this in mind I would also like to create a suitable but catchy name which can wear the theme with pride. I believe this mesh and molding of these two features are what create the website for what it really is.

I have created a wireframe to use as the bones of my site and from this I will create the site and begin to build it to try and get it close to the wireframes structure.

Miro, Wireframe https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_lH1IXGs=/

Within this wireframe I am thinking about a few ideas about the idea of the use of colours red and purple or red and blue are the colours I would like to use within my site. Both colours must be deep, strong but very dark colours. The wireframe contains information about what I would like to include within certain locations or pages. The text is something that I would like to create later in development but I know what should be placed there. I feel as though the text may change several times over, so I feel as though the text could be left out for the mean time.

Within the wireframe I tried to present the navigation to the page and believe that it doesn't properly betray how to use the site. You can use the search bar which is in the navigation bar to access a results page. The results will contain a series of names which have hyperlinks to connect to the respected page. Once on the page you can see comments which are split up into different sections. You can always access the homepage from the use of the logo and title. You can also use the login button to access the login page and then the login button becomes an account or signout afterwards. On the results page you will have the ability to create a page with the name of a game which is not included in the results page or data base. Signout will go back to the homepage and the account link will take the user to the account page. This is roughly how the navigation system will work on my website.

<h2>Initial Concept</h2>
I want to create a site about games, which will have the user be able to write about a game of there choice. I also want to make sure that the user or viewer can also read a comment no matter what. I want to make sure that a user can possibly create a page if the game is not included.

Within producing and creating comments I want the user to be able to tell the site what type of comment they are producing. Initially, I had no intension of adding a general tag but shortly after creating the site and creating some different things I had added that to help users to just produce what they would like and if it didn't fall into the tags that where there they could also just still have their comment or voice heard on my site. I thought that this would give the user an ability to state how they feel about a game and properly show to others what they feel.

The other tags where an initial idea which I had from the beginning. I had begun this idea with just 3 tags, guide, trivia and glitches, as this site would be able showing the user or view how to complete a game or giving the user information about the game, lore or anything they can do which may exploit the game. I want a site that any user can user and try to make the site simple to use. These three tags originally summed up the site and the pages really well but as the idea begun I had realized this wasn't just enough. Although I want this site to be a list of pieces of information, I still wanted to show other peoples opinions of the site.

Also, within the production of the site it was hard at first to use Flask as this was rather new to me. I was able to understand this language rather well due to past experiences with the language that this extension uses. I had picked this language up rather well. I had taught myself how to use the site as I like to be able to use the language without much information from another as I believe to understand how to use something is rather difficult if instructed, and is easier to learn to overcome problems and issues themselves.

I had also wanted to create this site without the use of any assets that are not my own. I like to create everything myself even if this may sometimes be difficult. If you create everything yourself you realize that your sear understanding of your idea is what helps when you are producing the website and assets. You know what you need to do and you doing it helps you refine and enforce your idea about the site. The assets are an equal part of your site and its identity and creating these yourself helps the most when producing everything.

Within creating the name, I had settled for a name which used a starting word which was common within both words. I had settled for Retro Reviews as my initial intension was to create a site where people could talk about old, retro games. This would help me create an effective mirror like effect on the logo. This would allow for me to produce a logo with a simple but yet effective use of two distinct colours which have a complex relationship and also would allow for me to simply produce a RR logo. I wanted the logo to also present the user with two colours which can also imply a form of danger, or a form of incorrect. The other colour was a blue colour with a similar contrast and was used to be a way to show a positive or correct implication. This difference between colour is what I want to stick with throughout the webpage and I want to use these two colours for both the similarity and contrast and what they imply.

I wanted to also create a search function which will use the colour blue just as though it is a hyperlink to present the user with an understanding that it is just a standard search engine similar to google or other search engine. As I want this site to be simple and easily understood by others I tried to use the colours similar to other websites. This conventional use would be to just try and show the users a simple but effective site which offers them a similarities to other locations they may have seen this coloured theme. These colours need to be included throughout to hold up the theme in all of the webpages I have created.

<h2>Development</h2>
Within creating this site, I had used a series of drawn plans to give me understanding on what I wanted to make from the beginning I thought about the idea of creating a page where the nav and footer are dominant and always visible. Within the plan I wanted a logo and search bar within the nav bar and didn't want a series of bare hyperlinks. Also, within the footer I wanted to just have a simple navigation to be able to access different pages link accounts or login. I selected to try and create a footer which contains a login which becomes an account page when the user has logged in. The navigation bar on the other hand, I have added a logo, which may not be self explanatory. So, I also included the name of the site and the search bar with a custom icon which followed my colour code.

I wanted to try and make the website as simple as I can but still present the site in the way I want to. I believe I have managed to achieve that by these plans to set the site up as I have. The colours of the site also work well with the structure and I believe the site now has the identity which I want to give it.

During development I had a few issues with creating this idea. I have chosen to manage my data as I have done. I wanted to make sure that the data was accessed in the way which is more familiar with me. I utilized the use of a json file too hold the data which is required for my website. The website uses a simple set of structures within the two files.

Within the first data file, the game-log.json file which is the file that is used by the results function to return pages that suit the user and the viewers request. Within this file it contains a simple but effective structure. After time I have properly thought about the way I want these files to be structured. The structure I went for is as followers, for example:
    "name": "Super Mario Galaxy", This is the name of the page on which is present when the search engine is used, this is also the value that is checked to see if it contains the word or phrase you have used.
    "series": "Super Mario Galaxy", This is the name of the series, this is also another way to present to the user that the website has been checked and has been tagged with a blue mark. The code is made so that if the series is different to the name then blue will be placed within the title.
    "console": "Wii", This is the console, this is used to show to the user or view that the game is on a console type and allows for users to gain vital knowledge.
    "details": "Another Mario adventure on which you go into space and have a new galactic adventure, with brand new companions. You will help Rosalina though a series of amazing adventures throughout a series of amazing locations with clever and interesting features and controls. This has an amazing story and a clever use of the Wii Motion Control features.", This is the description to the site which I have created, this gives the user information on the game and gives them a beginning story about what the game is about.
    "link": "super_mario_galaxy", This is the link to the site which is generally made to be the name of the page but made lowercase and also given an underscore replacement for spaces. This simplifies and generalizes to the user that they can create a website. I use this as a way to also check this link which is in the url when accessed. This is to obtain information about comments and titles when on the page.
    "comment_title": [], This is the title of the comments which can be found on the webpage. This is used to fill the summaries tag and to show the user a quick title about the section where a comment can be found.
    "comment_tag": [], This is the hold for tags. Tags are used to find a place for a comment within my page. There are four tags, Guide, General, Glitch and Trivia. These are used to guide the user and viewer in a general direction to find what they are looking for easier.
    "comment": [], This is where the comments will be found and will be placed within the array.
    "author": [], This is where the username of the commenter will be stored and used to show other users who has helped them. This presents to the viewer a username of someone who has helped the website.
    "num_comments": 0, This is the amount of comment which are on a website. This increases by one every time you add a comment to the website.
    "page_creater": "warr", This is a homage to the creator of the page as I feel that a username needs to be presented for the page's creation.
    "rr_tag_comment": [] Finally this is the array which holds the numeric value of which comments have been blue tagged and is made into an RR tag on comments within a page. The value of the comments index position is placed within this array to priorities it above all other comments.
    I have changed the structure of this site several times over but have settled with a simplified version of what I wanted originally. I prefer to program to present my idea and then begin to make the code simpler and more effective. Simple but effective code can make a job easier and take up less time and space.

I would like to continue to use these data formats the these .json files to perform these tasks on my site. I feel as though all the tasks I have set on this site are completed with the use of these data files.

<h2>During Development</h2>
Whilst creating this website there was many changes which I had done to this site to make it truer to the idea that I had. I wanted to change the way on which comments were presented. The comments can now be hidden or shown using the summary and details tag. This was in an effort to condense pages and comments and also allow for people to find comments with titles that may be more suitable and prevents people from seeing random pieces of content which could affect the user experience.

I also added a feature to do with something called a blue tag or RR tag which will be presented as a simple blue mark aside a comment. This is to show the user that the comment has been checked and is seen by me and my site as a comment which is suitable for everyone to read. I do this in an effort to show that some comments are better than other comments within the website. This will show that I take a sense of pride within these comments and would like to priorities these over other comments.

I have had several ideas for the results page, I have tried to think of the best way to present the hyperlinks and how I'd like the information to be shown. I want to make sure that the information which is presented is true to how I feel it should be. I chose to go for a standard search engine style and made the link colour the same as the blue colour which is used within the site and a comment underneath it to show the user what this game is about so they know that it is the game they are looking for.

I have removed the use of some of the icons that I was going to use within the footer. I wanted to include an icon which was a chat bubble, book and a profile icon which would have present to the user a way to access a chat, a profile page and a comment section but I wanted to combine most of my pages into one. I like how the final setup came out and I am glad that I have laid it out the way I have. Combining the different features was, in my opinion better for the user or viewer.

I am proud of the image of the site that I have created I feel as though the site has been created with a unique identity. I feel as though the font, layout and the colour theme have given my site personality and truly presented the intended function and presentation of what I wanted to create.

I had a moment where I had disabled the account page as this was due to the idea that I didn't know what I wanted to do. I wanted to create a familiar layout but I was still unsure of how it may look. Now that I have created this layout and find that it truly defines my site and have now allowed a user to access an account page which is filled with activity.

The structure of my code has been created as what I feel is the best layout. Routing functions are first, then functions which have general uses and then finally the if launch statement was the final part of the script. I have also included comments within all of my files. The HTML and Python will both be given some comments to describe what I have intended to do.

I feel as though the site is self-explanatary and contains a homepage which includes information about how the user or viewer can use my site to better themselves.

<h2>Finalizing</h2>
I have asked for my friends' opinion on the site. I have shown them the site and they have discussed with me that the idea, layout and structure suit what I am after. I truly agree with this opinion on how the site is and how it works.

I have gone from the original model of the wireframe in some locations.

I have had a friend test my website with me and with his help I had found out a series of issues with the website. I had noticed that the way on which I deal with users doesn't suit the situation I need. I need the website to be able to have several users at once and realized that the user could only have one login at once. Now I have started to use the Flask-Login module to help with multi-user support. I had continued to use the things that I had already in place but then also just worked in the login master and some of the modules to allow for multi-user support. Now I have tested this site and found that the website can now support several active users, and still use the files which I have made at the beginning.

I have set up this GitHub repository online and on the Heroku site. I want to be able to get the site on Heroku first to check the site over. Relatively the site can now be used and data can also be stored correctly. If the files are edited on the Heroku site then the files will not be changed and edited on Github.

The site is set up at this link and has been updated to the latest version of my website.

Heroku Live Website - https://data-centric-webpage-roy-finch.herokuapp.com/

I have changed a few things about my webpage as I have had to change the website to suit the multi-user update. I needed to change some features about the website as it has been done differently now.

I have also deleted the assets that are not used on my website as they don't suit the use of them now or are no longer needed. I will keep the site the way it is now as it still presents everything that I want to present on the site, and correctly keeps the site true to how I want it took look and function.

If you would like to test my website from the point of view of a person who has already added a few comments and pages you may use my account with the details, warr, test, which is the username and password respectfully.

<h2>Bibliography</h2>
Wireframe Website - https://miro.com/ - used to create the wireframe for my website and gives me the understanding of how the website should be laid out.
Heroku - https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps - used this to upload and publish the website to as it supports the python language and python applications.